# Change Log

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file
automatically by Versionist. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE MANUALLY!
This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/).

## v6.8.3 - 2017-11-16

* Remove resin promote command (which has never worked) to wait for larger resinOS provisioning updates #717 [Tim Perry]

## v6.8.2 - 2017-11-14

* Fix 'cannot read property R_OK of undefined' error in Node >=6 <6.3 #713 [Tim Perry]

## v6.8.1 - 2017-11-09

* Avoid AmbiguousApplication errors in device register when an id is used #711 [Tim Perry]

## v6.8.0 - 2017-10-27

* Allow preloading jetson-tx2 images, improve flasher images detection and remove the --dont-detect-flasher-type-images option. #706 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.7.4 - 2017-10-25

* Add preload to the CLI docs #702 [Tim Perry]

## v6.7.3 - 2017-10-25

* Allow specifying `--commit=latest` for `resin preload` #701 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.7.2 - 2017-10-24

* Make update-notifier more resilient and ensure it obeys NO_UPDATE_NOTIFIER, by updating it #699 [Tim Perry]

## v6.7.1 - 2017-10-24

* Respect the -dont-check-device-type option, fix error message #697 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.7.0 - 2017-10-18

* Added a device api key parameter to the `os configure` command. #487 [Pagan Gazzard]
* Added a `--device-api-key` option to the `config generate` command. #487 [Pagan Gazzard]
* Added a `--device-api-key` option to the `device register` command. #487 [Pagan Gazzard]

## v6.6.13 - 2017-10-18

* Fix issue where `os download` would always download prod images #689 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.12 - 2017-10-16

* Update resin-preload to 4.0.2 to support preloading Edison images #687 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.6.11 - 2017-10-13

* Document how to `resin deploy` to an app as a collaborator #685 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.10 - 2017-10-09

* Ensure hostname truly is optional when configuring device images #676 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.9 - 2017-10-06

* Fix resin preload --splash-image argument handling #678 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.6.8 - 2017-10-06

* Ensure analytics failures (e.g. from broken tokens) at startup don't break commands #675 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.7 - 2017-09-22

* Update to resin-sync, which fixes local push on windows #666 [Tim Perry]
* Add windows instructions to fix node-gyp installs #666 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.6 - 2017-09-11

* Create ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md #655 [Kostas Lekkas]

## v6.6.5 - 2017-08-31

* Fix lodash bugs in device move & quickstart #643 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.4 - 2017-08-31

* Catch uncommitted build output automatically in Travis #644 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.3 - 2017-08-31

* Update README to link to the full CLI command documentation #641 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.2 - 2017-08-31

* Use DOCKER_HOST from env if possible, and no connection options are available #642 [Tim Perry]

## v6.6.1 - 2017-08-28

* Update resin-preload to 3.1.4 #650 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.6.0 - 2017-08-28

* Add a --dont-check-device-type option for `resin preload` #647 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.5.3 - 2017-08-24

* Remove resin-preload build filtering workaround. #645 [Alexis Svinartchouk]

## v6.5.2 - 2017-08-22

### Changed

 - Progress bar when preload builds its docker image or fetches the build size;
 - Preload will do nothing if you try to preload a build that is already preloaded in the image.

## v6.5.1 - 2017-08-21

### Fixed

- Fix lodash upgrade bug that broke `resin help`

## v6.5.0 - 2017-08-18

### Changed

- Set up Travis npm autodeploy
- Upgrade to Lodash v4, drastically reducing install size (due to dedupes)
- Updated npm package description
- Added support for looking up shared apps via [owner]/[appname] strings

### Added

- Use forked global-tunnel-ng that doesn't proxy connections to socket files
- Preload support

## v6.4.0 - 2017-08-11

### Changed

- Support overlay2 in resin local push
- Support Docker versions greater than 1.X in resin sync
- Provide a helpful warning when Docker is not installed (or is unaccessible)
- Added a link to the Node download page in the warning for users with old Node versions
- Remove inconsistent (and now unneccesary) 'Tagging image as' message from local build output

## v6.3.1 - 2017-08-08

- Updated resin-cli-auth to point to the correct resin dashboard ued for authentication (for example, staging)

## v6.3.0 - 2017-08-03

### Fixed

- Fixed compatibility of `resin local push` with docker >= 1.12

## v6.2.0 - 2017-07-27

### Changed

- Support the new resinOS versions where the sample connection file is called `resin-sample.ignore`

## v6.1.1 - 2017-07-18

### Changed

- Hide the intro quickstart message for now (until it gets renovated)

## v6.1.0 - 2017-06-30

### Fixed

- Fix issue where emulated builds broke Docker `ARG` commands
- Fix issue when using resin deploy with non-standard stdin (e.g. git bash on windows)

### Added

- Bump resin-sync@8.0.1
	- Permit resin sync to collaborators
	- Fix "'cwd' must be a string" error in Node 8
- Do not explicitly disable ControlMaster option for device SSH connections

## v6.0.0 - 2017-06-26

### Added

- Added support for `--squash` parameter for `resin build`

### Fixed

- **Breaking** Remove Buffer polyfill, require Node v6+, and print warnings in older versions

## v5.11.1 - 2017-06-22

### Added

- Include Node version in Sentry logging

### Fixed

- Ensure to send .pem file contents rather than filename to docker daemon
- Add a polyfill to fix `local configure` in older (<6) Node versions

## v5.11.0 - 2017-06-19

### Added

- `package-lock.json` for `npm5` users
- Added ability to run an emulated build silently with `resin build`
- Gzip images when uploading in `resin deploy`
- Show a clear message immediately as the deploy starts, if we're deploying an image.
- Forced update to the newest resin-sdk (^6.4.1)
- Allow OS version selection when doing `resin device init`
- Actually tolerate the `--yes` param to `resin device init`
- Allows passing `--drive` to `resin device init`
- List detected drives with `resin util available-drives`
- Add the `resin os build-config` method to pass the interactive config step once
and reuse the built file for subsequent `resin os configure` calls (added the new `--config` param to it),
and for `resin device init` (same `--config` param)
- Improve the supported device types listing

### Fixed

- Ensure emulated builds use the correct relative path to qemu when called from any location
- Make emulated builds reliable in the presence for WORKDIR comands

## v5.10.2 - 2017-05-31

### Fixed

- Fixed command line arguments for `resin build`

## v5.10.1 - 2017-05-22

### Fixed

- Fixed breaking bug in `resin local ssh`

## v5.10.0 - 2017-05-22

### Added

- Reduce granularity of update checking to one day
- Include extra usage metadata in error logging to help debugging
- Add uploading of build logs when present with resin deploy
- Highlight cache usage in a local build
- Show a progress bar for upload progress
- Add ability to specify build-time variables for local builds
- Added the proxy support for the `resin ssh` command

### Fixed

- Fixed the not enough unicorns bug in resin build
- Removed the install-time warning for the `valid-email` package

## v5.9.1 - 2017-05-01

### Fixed

- Technical release because v5.9.0 was published earlier (erroneously)

## v5.9.0 - 2017-05-01

### Added

- HTTP(S) proxy support

## v5.8.1 - 2017-04-27

### Fixed

- The `ssh` command was broken

## v5.8.0 - 2017-04-26

### Added

- Add cloud builder output to local build
- Add nocache and tag options to resin deploy
- Add ability to build and deploy an image to resin's infrastructure

### Fixed

- Capture and report errors happening during the program initialization, like parsing invalid YAML config

## v5.7.2 - 2017-04-18

### Fixed

- Fixed warning on NPM install due to dependency conflicts
- Improved node v4 support (some operations are fixed, some will run faster)

## v5.7.1 - 2017-04-03

### Fixed

- Add basic support for the new ResinOS version format

## v5.7.0 - 2017-03-28

### Fixed

- The OS init issues:
	* failing to get the superuser resin auth (tried to look into `/root/.resin`)
	* failing to write to the drive

## v5.6.1 - 2017-03-23

### Added

- Add Sentry error tracking

### Fixed

- The unneeded warning about the default OS version download from the `device init` command.
- Changed the help references from gitter to forums.

## v5.6.0 - 2017-03-23

### Added

- The `--version` option to the `os download` command. Check `resin help os download` for details.

## v5.5.0 - 2017-03-10

### Added

- Require superuser for scan commands, also introduce docker timeout
- Bump resin-sync@7.0.0: use experimental rds which requires superuser permissions

## v5.4.0 - 2017-03-09

### Added

- Implement 'resin local stop'
- Implement 'resin local'
- Implement 'resin local push'
- Implement 'resin local ssh'
- Implement 'resin local scan'
- Implement 'resin local promote'
- Implement 'resin local logs'
- Implement 'resin local flash'
- Implement 'resin local configure'

### Changed

- Remove app create from primary commands

## v5.3.0 - 2017-03-03

### Added

- `resin sync` AUFS device support

### Changed

- Moved to the new version of `resin-sdk` (via `resin-sdk-preconfigured`)

## v5.2.4 - 2017-01-18

### Changed

- Fix documented requirements for resin ssh and resin sync

## v5.2.3 - 2017-01-04

### Changed

- Add missing `js-yaml` dependency.

## v5.2.2 - 2016-11-01

### Changed

- Fix `shutdown` command not being available.

## v5.2.1 - 2016-10-28

### Changed

- Fix `Boolean options can't have parameters` error in every command.

## v5.2.0 - 2016-10-27

### Added

- Add `shutdown` command.
- Add `--force` option to `device reboot` command.

## v5.1.0 - 2016-09-25

### Added

- Add `devices supported` command.

## v5.0.0 - 2016-09-15

### Added

- Automatically parse '.gitignore' for file inclusions/exclusions from resin sync by default. Skip parsing with `--skip-gitignore`.
- Automatically save options to `<sourceDirectory>/.resin-sync.yml` after every run.
- Support user-specified destination directories with `--destination/-d` option.
- Implement `--after` option to perform actions local (e.g. cleanup) after resin sync has finished.
- Implement interactive dialog for destination directory, with `/usr/src/app` being the default choice.

### Changed

- Require `resin sync` `--source/-s` option if a `.resin-sync.yml` file is not found in the current directory.
- Require `uuid` as an argument in `resin sync/ssh` (`appName` has been removed).
- Always display interactive device selection dialog when uuid is not passed as an argument.
- Disable ControlMaster ssh option (as reported in support).

## v4.5.0 - 2016-09-14

### Added

- Attempt to retrieve device type from the image's first partition.

## v4.4.0 - 2016-08-11

### Changed

- Display OS and Supervisor version in `devices` and `device` commands.

## v4.3.0 - 2016-08-11

### Added

- Implement `device public-url enable` command.
- Implement `device public-url disable` command.
- Implement `device public-url status` command.
- Implement `device public-url` command.
- Add global `--help` option.

## v4.2.1 - 2016-07-26

### Changed

- Fix log messages being `undefined`.

## v4.2.0 - 2016-06-22

### Added

- Add `verbose` option to `resin sync`.

## v4.1.0 - 2016-06-22

### Added

- Add `verbose` option to `resin ssh`.

## v4.0.3 - 2016-05-17

### Changed

- Fix `resin ssh` errors when running in `cmd.exe`.

## v4.0.2 - 2016-04-27

### Changed

- Upgrade `resin-sync` to v2.0.2.

## v4.0.1 - 2016-04-26

### Changed

- Fix unhandled exceptions in the `resin ssh` command.

## v4.0.0 - 2016-04-26

### Added

- Implement `resin ssh` command

### Changed

- Remove `resin sync` `exec` option.
- Upgrade `resin-sync` to v2.0.1.
- Upgrade `resin-sdk` to v5.3.0.

## v3.0.2 - 2016-04-08

### Changed

- Fix `os configure` command not working with shorter uuids.

## v3.0.1 - 2016-03-29

### Changed

- Log Mixpanel events based on the matching command signature.

## v3.0.0 - 2016-03-28

### Added

- Implement `config inject` command.
- Document the case where `EACCES` is thrown during login because of an expired token.
- Integrate `resin-plugin-sync` as a build-in command.

### Changed

- Allow `config generate` to generate a `config.json` for an application.
- Force update alert to always be shown.
- Only throw "Invalid 2FA code" if we're sure that's the cause during `login`.

## v2.7.0 - 2016-03-07

### Added

- Implement `config generate` command.
- Implement `device reboot` command.

## v2.6.2 - 2016-02-19

### Removed

- Remove debugging statement in `quickstart`.

## v2.6.1 - 2016-02-12

### Added

- Documented corrupted image MBR error.
- Show parser device status in `device` command.
- Show id a device is online in `devices` command.
- Make use of static images.

### Changed

- Improve analytics.
- Improve `quickstart` messages.
- Fix `device` example.

## v2.6.0 - 2016-01-21

### Added

- Add support for credential-based authentication.
- Redirect users to GitHub and Gitter in case of errors.
- Add Resin.io ASCII art header on `login`.
- Print an informative next-steps message after `login`.
- Print informative verbose help to `resin help`.
- Support for shorter uuids in all commands.

### Changed

- Change license to Apache 2.0.
- Don't make `device init` a primary command.
- Stop instructing users to run `quickstart` as root.
- Make `login` command purely interactive.
- Handle authentication in `quickstart` if user is not logged in.
- Redirect to `signup` from `login` if user doesn't have an account.
- Make sure to remove registered device resource in case of errors in `quickstart`.
- Upgrade Resin SDK to v5.0.1.
- Upgrade Resin Image Manager to v3.2.6.
- Make `devices` output shorter uuids.

## v2.5.0 - 2015-12-11

### Added

- Show device id in `resin devices`.
- Add helpful instructions after `resin quickstart`.
- Add timestamp to `resin logs` lines.

### Changed

- Lazy load command actions dependencies for performance reasons.

## v2.4.0 - 2015-12-01

### Added

- Show device types when selecting applications.
- Automatic token exchange login with the web dashboard.

### Changed

- Simplify download output messages.

## v2.3.0 - 2015-11-20

### Added

- Implement `settings` command.
- Handle Windows elevation automatically.

### Changed

- Show uuids in `devices` command.
- Clarify resin url in `login` and `whoami`.

## v2.2.0 - 2015-11-12

### Added

- Implement `device move` command.

## v2.1.0 - 2015-11-11

### Added

- Implement `config read` command.
- Implement `config write` command.

### Changed

- Clarify the need of computer password during `sudo` in `os initialize`.

## v2.0.1 - 2015-10-26

### Changed

- Fix critical error when elevating permissions.

## v2.0.0 - 2015-10-26

### Added

- Add `drive` option to `os initialize`.
- Add application name length validation.
- Allow passing a custom uuid to `device register`.
- Add `advanced` option in `device init`.
- Implement user/password login form with 2FA support.

### Changed

- Clarify the need for admin privileges on update.
- Fix non working `yes` option in `os initialize`.
- Fix non working `type` option in `app create`.
- Take device type as an option in `os initialize`.
- Improve the way the update notifier is shown.
- Ignore advanced configuration options by default.
- Fix	`device info` shadowing other command help pages.

### Removed

- Remove login with token functionality.
- Remove project directory creation logic in `device init`.
- Remove `app associate` command.

## v1.1.0 - 2015-10-13

### Added

- Implement `os download` command.
- Implement `os configure` command.
- Implement `os initialize` command.
- Implement `device register` command.
- Add TROUBLESHOOTING guide.
- Add a dynamic widget for selecting connected drives.

### Changed

- Make sure temporary files are removed on failures in `device init`.
- Prompt to select application if running `device init` with no arguments.
- Only use admin privileges in `os initialize` to avoid the cache directory to belong to `root`.
- Separate help output per relevance.
- Only print primary command help by default.
- Print plugin warnings in red as the rest of the errors.
- Shorten the length of device await message.
- Upgrade Resin SDK to v3.0.0.
- Check that a directory is a `git` repository before attempting to run `git` operations on it.
- Improve plugin scanning mechanism.
- Fix `EPERM` issue in Windows after a successfull `device init`.
- Fix SDCard burning issues in Windows 10.
- Fix plugins not being loaded in Windows 10.
- Fix bug when listing the available drives in Windows when the user name contains spaces.
- Fix an edge case that caused drives to be scanned incorrectly in OS X.
- Fix operating system not being detected correctly when initializing a device.

### Removed

- Remove outdated information from README.
